README.adoc, before:

= Gradle Enterprise Testing Annotations

Common annotations for https://gradle.com/[Gradle Enterprise]'s
https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/[Predictive Test Selection] and
https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/[Test Distribution] as well as
the standalone https://github.com/gradle/test-retry-gradle-plugin[Test Retry Plugin].

== Annotations

All annotations have an optional `because` attribute to explain why the annotation is present.
The annotations are located in the `com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations` package.

=== Predictive Test Selection

* `@MustRun` - indicates that the test must be run.

=== Test Distribution

* `@LocalOnly` - indicates that the test must be run locally.
* `@RemoteOnly` - indicates that the test must be run remotely.

=== Test Retry Plugin

* `@Retryable` - indicates that the test should be retried.
* `@NonRetryable` - indicates that the test must not be retried.

== Usage

.Gradle
[source,kotlin]
----
testImplementation("com.gradle:gradle-enterprise-testing-annotations:1.0")
----

.Maven
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.gradle</groupId>
    <artifactId>gradle-enterprise-testing-annotations</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

== Configuration

=== Predictive Test Selection
For Gradle see https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/#must_run_annotation_matcher[Must Run Annotation Matcher] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    useJUnitPlatform()
    predictiveSelection {
        enabled.set(true)
        mustRun {
            includeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.MustRun")
        }
    }
}
----

For Maven see the https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/#must_run_annotation_matcher_2[Must Run Annotation Matcher] chapter for details.

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
  <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0-M7</version>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <predictiveSelection>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <mustRun>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.MustRun</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </mustRun>
      </predictiveSelection>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

=== Test Distribution
For Gradle see https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/#gradle_executor_restrictions_annotation_matcher[Local-/remote-only annotation matcher] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    distribution {
        enabled.set(true)
        localOnly {
            includeAnnotationClasses.addAll("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.LocalOnly")
        }
        remoteOnly {
            includeAnnotationClasses.addAll("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.RemoteOnly")
        }
    }
}
----

For Maven see the https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/#maven_executor_restrictions_annotation_matcher[Local-/remote-only annotation matcher] chapter for details.

[source,xml]
----


<plugin>
  <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0-M7</version>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <distribution>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <localOnly>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.LocalOnly</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </localOnly>
        <remoteOnly>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.RemoteOnly</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </remoteOnly>
      </distribution>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

=== Test Retry Plugin
See the https://github.com/gradle/test-retry-gradle-plugin#filtering[Filtering] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    retry {
        filter {
            includeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.Retryable")
            excludeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.NonRetryable")
        }
    }
}
----

Commit message:

Add notice of planned direct annotation support
Signed-off-by: Leonard Brünings <leonard.bruenings@gradle.com>

README.adoc, after:

= Gradle Enterprise Testing Annotations

Common annotations for https://gradle.com/[Gradle Enterprise]'s
https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/[Predictive Test Selection] and
https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/[Test Distribution] as well as
the standalone https://github.com/gradle/test-retry-gradle-plugin[Test Retry Plugin].

== Annotations

All annotations have an optional `because` attribute to explain why the annotation is present.
The annotations are located in the `com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations` package.

=== Predictive Test Selection

* `@MustRun` - indicates that the test must be run.

=== Test Distribution

* `@LocalOnly` - indicates that the test must be run locally.
* `@RemoteOnly` - indicates that the test must be run remotely.

=== Test Retry Plugin

* `@Retryable` - indicates that the test should be retried.
* `@NonRetryable` - indicates that the test must not be retried.

== Usage

.Gradle
[source,kotlin]
----
testImplementation("com.gradle:gradle-enterprise-testing-annotations:1.0")
----

.Maven
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.gradle</groupId>
    <artifactId>gradle-enterprise-testing-annotations</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

== Configuration

=== Predictive Test Selection
A future Gradle Enterprise version will have integrated support for this annotation.
For Gradle see https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/#must_run_annotation_matcher[Must Run Annotation Matcher] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    useJUnitPlatform()
    predictiveSelection {
        enabled.set(true)
        mustRun {
            includeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.MustRun")
        }
    }
}
----

For Maven see the https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/predictive-test-selection/#must_run_annotation_matcher_2[Must Run Annotation Matcher] chapter for details.

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
  <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0-M7</version>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <predictiveSelection>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <mustRun>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.MustRun</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </mustRun>
      </predictiveSelection>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

=== Test Distribution
A future Gradle Enterprise version will have integrated support for these annotations.
For Gradle see https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/#gradle_executor_restrictions_annotation_matcher[Local-/remote-only annotation matcher] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    distribution {
        enabled.set(true)
        localOnly {
            includeAnnotationClasses.addAll("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.LocalOnly")
        }
        remoteOnly {
            includeAnnotationClasses.addAll("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.RemoteOnly")
        }
    }
}
----

For Maven see the https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/test-distribution/#maven_executor_restrictions_annotation_matcher[Local-/remote-only annotation matcher] chapter for details.

[source,xml]
----


<plugin>
  <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0-M7</version>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <distribution>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <localOnly>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.LocalOnly</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </localOnly>
        <remoteOnly>
          <includeAnnotationClasses>
            <include>com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.RemoteOnly</include>
          </includeAnnotationClasses>
        </remoteOnly>
      </distribution>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

=== Test Retry Plugin
A future Test Retry Plugin version will have integrated support for these annotations.
See the https://github.com/gradle/test-retry-gradle-plugin#filtering[Filtering] chapter for details.

[source,kotlin]
----
tasks.test {
    retry {
        filter {
            includeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.Retryable")
            excludeAnnotationClasses.add("com.gradle.enterprise.testing.annotations.NonRetryable")
        }
    }
}
----
